Mystery show is brought to you by kind snacks kind snacks wants to help you celebrate everyday acts of
kindness spot someone being kind and you can send that person a kind snack.
Wait how is that even possible is what you're asking yourself right now.
Well actually easier than you would think just going to how kind of you dot com slash
mystery to get
started from gimlet I'm Starlee kine and this is
a mystery
show
really every week I solve a new mystery
why the mysteries that can't be solved online mysteries
you can't solve yourself why their daughter Linda
Sanchez up until
now there hasn't been anyone to help with
this that
person is now me.
So
should
I
start from the beginning. Does the beginning mean childhood.
Not that
beginning this mystery belongs to my friend
Jonathan a couple weekends ago I went to the Smithsonian Institute in Washington
D.C. rain do any of like the smart things and go see like
you know documents. I looked at Dorothy flu is a devises shoes.
Archie Bunker's chair. You know the dumb ass part of him use them.
So I saw that stuff and then ten minutes later I went to the cafeteria to get something the eat.
You've been getting legendarium And did you spend it
in museum. I probably spent more time in the cafeteria.
It was a good lunch. And on the way
in they have behind glass all of these lunch
pails and what caught my eye was the Welcome Back
Kotter lunchpail sitcom from the seventy's starring gave Kaplan and
drawn Travolta about a group of four guys. In high school I guessed they
were learning
disabled or you had risk juvenile delinquent. Yeah they were juvenile delinquents I guess
yeah with learning disabilities definitely Arnold for Shaq either had a learning disability
or was just Jewish but back then he was funny and they called him sweat hog.
I
was a huge. Welcome Back Kotter fan like I loved it so much and not only did I watch
it I used to tape record I had audio tape recorder an ace a tape record
episodes and then listen to them again later like as though they were radio plays. Yeah and
I used to even like memorize lines that our cool that I could use in
school like your mom so low that she could play handball against the curb.
There's a lot of Mother jokes like John Travolta's character Vinnie Barbarino would always
say not about memo The Should men murder was a saint remember that. Nope.
Absolutely not I In fact I think I just used that line on you last time I saw you I said hey look
you brought up my mother innocent My mother's a saint. I was quoting Vinnie
Barbarino at this point it seems hard to believe the Johnson ever said anything to me that wasn't
from Welcome Back
Kotter so I was studying the scene depicted on the lunch
pail and there was something in in the image that
made no sense to me and I just stood there for quite a
while holding my tray full of food just staring at the front
page trying to figure out what the what the image
was and what I'm going to do is I'm going to summon it up they took
a photograph of a photo and Johnson found out that piqued my interest.
I guess you my i Phone I mean I've got. I've only taken maybe four
pictures of my niece one of my nephew maybe a picture of a
parking sign so I remembered where I parked or something and then this Welcome Back Kotter lunchpail I don't
want to waste I don't want to waste memory said the man whose childhood memories were filled to capacity.
Welcome Back Kotter OK in the
scene you see all four sweat hogs and Mr Carter.
They're all standing outside a locker bank
and one Epstein and Vinnie Barbarino look as
though they're about to get into a fight and that's the moment that's
been the mortal eyes on this on this lunch pail.
So I was like That's really odd one would never fight with
Barber You know they're all friends so
I looked at it more closely and I
realized one Epstein is holding his
jacket which is a good denim jacket a jean jacket a kind
of jacket that a juvenile delinquent in the seventy's might wear and
the sleeves of the jacket have
not taken the sleeve like that like a length of rope or shoe
lace and has just tied knots in
a
jacket in front of Barbara as though it were a
dead
pet Freddie Boom Boom Washington is behind
them and Arnold's shack is behind Barber Reno and looks like
he's pulling barber you know back. If you need a
visual picture one of those huge renaissance painting of Christ being taken down
the crown of thorns on his head lifeless body cradled by his
disciples like that except instead of
Christ the teaching jacket with knots in the sleeves.
What makes it so inscrutable to me is. Was the presence of the
sleeve knotted jacket is something I've never have you ever heard of that like jacket sleeve
knotting What is that about was that like a thing was that a prank that people pulled in
the seventy's.
Jonathan thought museums are places you go to grab a nice lunch turned out they also
contain
mysteries because I can't find it on the Internet. I looked up all kinds of
different
permutations knotting jacket
sleeves knots in coat sleeves not sleeve
joke. The While the knots in the sleeves might have been what most confounded Jonathan. It was
the injustice of it that most wanted him millions of years from now when
the world is turned to
dust and nothing but the wild lunchboxes is left standing. This is how
Welcome Back Kotter will be regarded by future civilizations.
I don't think it's an image taken from the actual T.V. show I think that whoever the artist
was who created the
picture might never never seen the show and you've seen all the episodes.
Yes the repeat like you have many times over and then also listen to the audio
coming up. Yeah I would listen to the audio afterwards. Do you remember the sound of
like Denham being told taht
put forward that sounds
easy and like all the great arm chair lunchbox designers before him. Johnson had some ideas
of his own about how it should have gone.
They could have put pretty boom Washington doing the air base and go boom boom boom boom
boom boom boom they could have put Arnold for check raising his hand in going
to Barbary no doing the barber you know dance. Why this.
I'm wondering where does this come from.
Was it a thing was it a line national craze like the you know the Charleston the
twenty's or something jacket knotting in the seventy's and it's just something lost to us so I'm
curious about that and I'm also curious about whoever the artist was who created.
The picture on the lunch pail
whether it was drawn from his own history or something that he
just invented
wholesale so I am imploring you to get to the bottom of this of this mystery.
Telling him pouring He said only really are imploring men. I'd like you
to help me. I'd like you to help me get to the bottom of
this as someone who's been in the mystery business for
weeks this case frankly seems a little beneath my experience level the not
a jacketed probably been on the show and Johnson just forgotten just like he would have
forgotten where he parked that one time if he had taken a picture of the space or just like how
he'd forgotten to document the rest of his whole entire life.
But nonetheless agreed to take on his
case I'd spend a few hours on it you know a favor for an old pal.
Besides I always have been a sucker for a good
imploring
Welcome Back Kotter was on for four seasons but the last season was shot in one thousand seventy nine and the
lunchbox came out in one nine hundred seventy seven that meant a scene could be in season
four I was making breastwork this
already
there were twenty two episodes a season. Each episode twenty four minutes long without
commercials that fifteen hundred in eighty four
minutes or a little more than one full day I didn't have that kind of time now
without it cutting into my watching other television
shows saying listen the help of two of my investigators. I told them
that ideally they'd find the scene itself but they were to be on the lookout for other clues to
anything nodded anything Dennis and
of course any pranks high jinks escapades capers antics or
larks if there was so much of the banana peel out of place. I wanted to hear about
it whatever's going on in
that picture in the lunch box is way too complicated for the typical
plot line. Of Welcome back. Or opposite. Lisa took the first shift season one.
OK Do they were denim to demo my jacket
denim is so pervasive and Welcome Back Kotter now we're getting somewhere when
they have to all the extras and this one hogs the room is just a sea of them. I made this
OK
there's denim jacket denim jeans denim shirt bell
bottoms that are denim and there with patches of other kinds of denim there are people who
wear outfits where the top is a denim shirt and the bottom is
jeans lot of them have jeans with no back pockets. That's weird. Vinnie
Barbarino has a denim jacket that's actually like I didn't know this is a cruel but it's
more like a barn style jacket cut with the bigger pockets. It's like a mom jean jacket.
You know what I'm saying but he has such a long torso I don't know if I had a choice.
I have to say but it's like the Top Ten Things to sit out to me was the length of John Travolta
stories are pranks a significant part of the show. There you have to
be there. There are praying. OK so like a typical prank from season one would be
like oh we took the signs off the bathrooms we put the sign for girls on
the boys bathroom we put a sign for boys on the girls' bathroom. That's a solid prank.
If you like to watch your season.
Believe me I will wait because first I did check in with
Eric about his
season as far as I can tell the jacket thing never happened in season two. I'm a little
afraid that it's going to be a situation where I was like watching it so closely I missed it
you know I finished them. I think twelve fifteen at night and I got to the end and I was like.
All right. I didn't see it
did I can see it I'm not sure you
know I got really excited and think it's about subsidy
maybe the vice principal character was Brummagem through the sweat hogs
lockers to get to Bob arena soccer and they opened up and he pulls out
a jacket. Michael this is. There's gotta be something here like
watched really intently like it was so heavy on the Geralyn close to the screen of that one
Arlington so close to the stage are nose pressed to the screen was not pressed group that's what
Washington looks like I'm sorry to avoid them
again. It was time for my season Season
three by season three the cast of Welcome Back Kotter
for some of the biggest stars in the country in interviews from that time the sweat hogs acknowledged the
danger of becoming so famous so young they knew they would be twenty six playing sixteen years old forever.
The trick to staying relevant Robert Hedges who played Epstein was to do it all
act direct produce he's already started a film production company called
Topeka which is Latin for marijuana sort
of that year John Travolta starred in both
Saturday Night Fever and grief. He seemed stressed me out I kept looking for indications
of lack of commitment to the role of Barbary know now that he's become a movie star such as the phoning
in of his catchphrase only doing the Who in the
what but not bothering with the
where Welcome Back Kotter takes place on four
sets more or less. The classroom. The hallway by the lockers the school
yard and the cottage living room. The same articles of clothing appear over and over
again one shirt in particular T. shirt with a bald eagle ironed on
kept showing up on different sweat hogs as though they were real life friends who shared each other's clothes.
There was no not a jean jacket in season three. I did however find an important
bit of Connor pranking philosophy in episode eighteen a new girl
and she enrolls in their one room schoolhouse. James the Canon
why she walks into class in the White House and go nuts. I'm
pretty sure you can see Epstein's heart beat out of his chest through his shirt a bug funny
like that and he's not interested in dating the sweat hogs she wants to become one of them.
She drops a pain on. Vice Principal of the wave impressing the guys at the bar bring a cause or an
amateur
or our stunt always have two things he tells
are their original and they leave no
evidence than a jean jacket prank satisfied both criteria.
It was so original no one has ever heard of
it and apparently it left not a shred of evidence behind.
I
needed to talk to someone who worked directly on the show. Maybe the lunchbox image came from something that
happened on the set like an inside joke five out of six the main Welcome Back Kotter
cast
members were either dead. Trimming down when I asked or John Travolta dealing
with the release of going clear on H.B.O. The six of gave Kaplan who played
Carter himself as a welcome back comma.
I was given his cell phone number but didn't hear back. So I tried the man who co-created the show
with Alan sax Dear Mr Sax I wrote there's
an image on the collar lunchbox that we just can't
understand.
Alan got back to me right away and gave me the address so I could come talk to him about it in
person and he
didn't he just one question though.
Who is we show before we get started on well maybe we are sort of I wanted to tell
you something when you said we you
know in the
email that I responded to you who is we it's
drug something that was really one of the really
interesting events in my
life I was hoping gunpoint by Phil
Spector for like five
hours
when was this it was nine hundred eighty. I was producing. This
pilot for
A.B.C. And who better for me to get to do
the music than Phil Spector and I got him on the phone and he
says great. Come on over.
So we set up a time he and I and his secretary calls me to
confirm and she said who's coming and I said I'm coming
myself I said OK I'll let Phil know that come at seven thirty. But as
I'm leaving the office the casting director is there said What are you
doing let's go get some Japanese food and I said OK let's do that but I gotta go over to Phil Spector's house
tonight want to take a ride with me. We'll go up there will listen to some music and then we'll
go out to eat after
what we get in my car. We start driving down the Sunset
Strip it was smoking a joint we're listening to diet straights on the radio on
way to Phil Spector's house very excited.
Now we get to the end of Sunset and he lives up a cul de
sac in Beverly Hills as we're getting closer as
bob wire signs that say no trespassing protected by Smith
and
Wesson pressed the buzzer the gate opens up drive my car
and park it we get
out two dogs come charging at
us
the door opens up and there's a guy standing in like a
karate student a giant said Hi I'm Joy drum
solos man. Hi Joy jam Alan. This is Cathy. Come on
in we go when George closes the door and he locks
it with the kid from the inside click click click and
puts became his pocket.
So I look at Kathy and the only way I know we can get added
air is that George has to open up the door.
He brings us into you know this beautifully appointed living room to
finish leather bound books leather chairs and pictures a
Lenin pictures of the Ramones pictures and I contain the Righteous
Brothers and suddenly
at the very far end of the room huge huge room.
We hear wrestling then Phil Spector comes down the steps and he
looks over Kathy and
he screams at the top of his lungs.
There's too many people
here too many people in my
house he wasn't expecting Kathy.
This is
just
too many people here I go with no wait it just works
and goes running
out
he comes out about a half hour later sits down at the coffee table shakes my
hand and he looks at me and says What are you doing here. Will you know what I'm doing here I called you we spoke on
the phone. I want you to do the music for this pilot that I'm doing. He said no no
no you're here because you want to go back and tell people I drink too much.
I take drugs and I play with guns. If daddy stands up.
He takes off his jacket and he straps with the biggest gun I've ever been in a woman in my
life and now the gun comes
out and I said but that shit away Man I gotta get outta here he said no no you know we're not
ready to go yet. And for the next six hours like
waving the gun around insanity.
He asked me if I knew karate and I said no he's a come on I'll show you
karate and then he said Do you like Leonard
Cohen I said I love when it's on he said Good I want to play you some tracks. And
so now we have to go and lay down his music room on the floor. He's on the floor
of Kathy's on the floor. God is between us and we have the headset
and we're listening to Leonard Cohen singing you like
learning death of a ladies man that album Listening
to the tracks of Devon
a ladies' man expected with a gun
between
he said I wrote the music for you you wrote the music for me kidding.
Wow So we go to the piano room and he starts playing on the piano a
dirge and I can't sing but it goes like where all rock N rollers rock N roll is
all trying to earn a living before the final curtain
call and the gun is like on the piano and he would pick it up every
one song come on Allen sing it with me where all rock N rollers
rock N roll it's all trying to earn a living before the final
curtain got hot. This went on
ours. So
finally some
guy worked at a radio station. He was working
with the late lobster shift he was getting off and called Phil and said hey I want to come by I'm going to
come by with yeah come on
by so when this guy came we were able to scurry out of
the room like a kitten and then with a
guy the next day
he sent me all sorts of gifts like Phil Spector cocktail napkins
and then those Dad said Hey Al I really had a swell time with you
last night.
Let's do it again soon.
But the president of A.B.C. said to me. Well did you get Phil Spector to do the music does he
want to do it I said you know
what he does but. Tell us of the Mahdi you got to have the next meeting with him because I'm
not so when you
said I don't want to surprise I
was doing my full spectrum.
So now we could talk about Potter.
I tried to get right to the point less so let another careless turn on flipout
I asked Alan if it wasn't too much trouble. Will you please tell me every single thing he knew about the welcome
back Ireland box of that I don't remember.
Of course he didn't I didn't really care about the merchandise and
Carter didn't care was one way of putting it another was I got screwed
on that
show Allen had sold the pilot for Cotter within six months of moving to Hollywood.
He had no idea what he was doing he didn't get syndication rights. He didn't get merchandising rights.
He did get a lot of hotel pool lounging time in though. But until that counts of legal
tender as I've often petition for two there wasn't much he could do with that
now I showed Alan the image on the lunch box.
What he think is happening in
that his Epstein's
jacket. He's accusing somebody
of doing something to his jacket.
You see the knots in the
sleeves. Oh yeah. What is out of the bag.
I don't know why that happened.
He's saying the same to Travolta you tied this up you tied not to
measure it why would they tie a knot in the sure is that a thing was a thing in your childhood.
It was. You know he by the way you're like wearing what's on the lunchbox you're
wearing a denim shirt. Button down shirt and
jeans This is from Japan and this is this is a Japanese denim shirt named
I haven't even worn this shirt in
like four years was in the back of my closet.
He didn't just one fast he just happened to make me interested a lunch box.
That's funny. Spring I want to wear a transitional shirt that will get
me from the winter to the spring in like a very subtle way and I wanted
it to be so of.
I left. Allen's no closer to understanding the purpose of putting knots in a jean jacket
sleeve but much more open minded about the versatility of denim in general as an option all year round.
Allen was still in touch with Gabe Kaplan and he connected the two of us by email. I updated my client.
I talked to
Alan Sachs who is co-creator Welcome Back Kotter guy.
It would about Gabe Kaplan unavailable doing what you spoke to get
Kaplan No you
didn't
think. From Gabe Kaplan Oh to
Starlee e-mail right here. Oh OK. Sent it went
to AM.
Hi Starlee. I think you're making way too much out of this the images are so leaps in the mind of
the illustrator. He probably saw a couple of shows and came up with his ideas. If you ask me to guess what action
the picture is trying to detail. My guess is that if Cotter and sweat hog look on Epstein is challenging
by brain and some way.
I like the refers to McCotter. There's nothing behind the grassy
knoll
cape which means definitely there's definitely something on the
grassy knoll.
Nice try. Gabe Kaplan but your clever attempt to call me out the case backfired.
I now had a new direction to head in toward the mind of the lunchboxes illustrator.
It was none too soon either as a lunch box mystery seemed to be tightening its grip
on John's and already caught a clogged
mind when I'm on the
subway going to work. I look at people sitting across from me and I think which
of them
has jackets who sleeves would lend themselves to being nodded at the
easiest like I've seen someone in a fur coat and I'd think Oh that would be a really hard one to
two jackets we've not had an interesting challenge. Interesting challenge. You know
Cecily with over code or one of those sleeveless jackets and you think we're going to
do that what am I going to do with that find out after the
break
support
for
mystery show comes from square space a quick and easy way to build your own website blog or on
line store in fact you'll be able to set up your site so fast that I just want
you to feel prepared for how much free time you're sending in a find yourself
with so suggestion number six.
Get a jump on your written correspondence namely your letters to get that summer
camp even if you don't know any kid to camp now it's important to plan for the future. Never
underestimate the power of
babies to grow up and become people remember Jannot make the real world sound so
good that the kids feel homesick. But good enough to be OK about one day
returning to it good square space dot com and start a free trial today
with Intuitive an easy to use
tools site slick professionally designed. Regardless of skill level. No coding
required make sure he's operated Mistry to get ten percent off your first
purchase Squarespace build a
beautiful support for mystery show also comes from kind
snacks kind snacks are made and you can see and pronounce. Which brings us to
this week's installment of the ingredients
list blueberries like the ones found in kind of blueberry vanilla and
cashew bars. We all know how hard it can be to get rid of clothing we like but haven't worn in a
while right
Kaitlin I love doing this going through all my things and figuring out what I want to cut and what I want to
keep I mean the biggest trap that people fall into is one day I'll wear it to a party
if there's a time a night when suddenly everything.
Then there's the clothes you wear all the time but
I do have a dress just ruined definitely be out with the old
in the next blueberry diet can't
fix
the next color will actually work dress. This would be the perfect thing to
revamp that Dracula
costume
revamp blueberries the kind snacking
gradient and use to revamp your wardrobe with a come
on something kind.
Welcome back. Welcome back. Welcome back.
I've moved on to my next person of interest the creator of the lunchbox.
I use to find this
outsider and gotten Johnson's role model all wrong.
I quickly found a name
online.
Leonard and
Elmer Elmer worked for thirty years
at Aladdin industries lunchboxes
if you were a
child relied on
food illustrated by
Elmer
getting Elmer about the Welcome Back Kotter lunch box though it would be difficult if not
impossible wasn't
alive back about calling him a
diligent
solve the mystery based on eyewitness
accounts which he was.
You said it.
Beverly was his Peggy.
When I first started working with him I was twenty three he left in lunch
boxes his sketches and concepts were just unbelievable.
He was he was just
good scientist and you lived across the street from Leonard.
This
is Joe the neighbor
kid my family built a house right across the street from his house
when I was four years old
and these were big southern neighborhoods really big lots of
his house was up on a big hill in clear sight from my home
and had a paved driveway and above the
garage was his studio
and I remember going into the studio as a
kid walking over there on my own I don't even remember if invited
me or if I invited myself. He would let me
watching
at the time I was married to all woman
that it didn't it didn't work out in the long run
and
I was freelancing and she wanted me to have a regular
job and this is Dan the late my
friend and I went down to interview for a lad and they were looking for an
illustrator and actually I met over the first day.
Elmo
was a very unique very talented
individual he was not unpleasant but he
wasn't like a great carious at
all he was very
demanding very very quiet. He was a crust. Very
very reserved.
Some people had a hard time with him but when I got along great
really inside. A teddy bear.
I'm like Mr Leonhardt and a very talkative very
verbal kind of person held his but that all recall him at all acting in
the OID questions and he certainly you know talked to me a lot.
He asked me one of the first things he asked me was did you carry a lunch box when you were a
kid amounts of Kerry did Davy Crockett.
And he said did the art work. That's one of the reasons I took the job.
I like the idea of working with Elmer you know here's the guy
that illustrated the lunch boxes that I admired as a child.
I may feel like I was in the presence of
something I actually
owned Dr Doolittle lunchbox. So
I brought in my lunch box and said You mom says you did this painting
and he says I did and he pulled out the illustration boards with those
paintings on them and the illustration had little tick marks and
instructions and didn't look just like your
lunchbox it did but you know I don't know if he's ever like seen
a poster of a Monday painting. And then seen it in person
the vibrance of the real thing is incredible but I love my lunchbox. But here was
this original painting that
was that was the same
size but much more vicious and.
He
spent so much time it took so much pride and what he was
doing if very much loved his work. I mean that
really set me on a path ultimately can attribute the fact that
I wanted to become a commercial artist because of him.
He said Don't run away from something you're
not good at Gallaudet larning like when Alice build a mass.
A SIT hour and a bill me or a tiny wall so and around me in a book How
to like block and brick and found in a study to have a library one that
my dad would call me that minute where you get into
the all important footing from our tiny while he went you doing
what you know my
father going through or to he
was you know the man as the head of the household. You know and I never resented my father for
that it's just that the way he was brought up. But when Elmer come along in
my life. He convinced me there was anything I could say.
One time Beverly told Elmer that she was terrible at drawing hands.
He told her that she should practice drawing them fifteen minutes every
morning over and over again you could always tell no my lunch
box for the characters hands while other artists only should fit their hands that
were one meshed together
unit on Elmer's each finger was individual defined.
It's true on the card or lunch box. You can see every last one hundred digit.
Mr Cotter's hand drawn and hit his finger splayed if he shewed to students.
What do you guys up to now look at the teams left hand
grips and not a jacket sleeve. Well his right hand pointed index finger at
it the pointing finger in fact seems to have been one of the go to
move on The Beverly Hillbillies lunchbox Jethro point out the family fancy new
digs as they pull up in the jalopy piled high with everything they
own and add in twelve bucks a terrifying little girl clutching a teddy
bear point gleefully at her brother who's gotten head stuck in a gate and it goes without
saying that Elmer was a perfect artist to capture in ten the most famous
pointing finger of the one nine hundred eighty S.
E.T.
since the lunch boxes were commissioned before the actual film or T.V. show came out the Aladdin illustrators were
sent footage. They then chose images
from Sometimes they were invited to see Katrina. It was Elmer came
up with Aladdin signature style to have the images on the lunchbox tell a story so that
the kids who belong
to would want to look all over it like miniature portable versions of
the films and shows they loved and Aladdin
based in Nashville was like a miniature version of the Hollywood studio system.
There were the trips to L.A. to meet with big wigs.
I went in this huge office it was all glass back in the back that Beverly
again and in was this this guy he was all
real disheveled
and he looked like somebody had been clean in a piano want to mate and
he turned around and it was filmed
or Spielberg himself had to approve the lunchbox Yes he wanted
to
do with a fragile egos a movie stars to
consider Rex Harrison was in every surface of the fricken lunch box to see
was Dr Doolittle So you know five different instances of Rex
Harrison standing there with a push me pull you
into the Big Giant. Snail.
And we spent some time looking at it and he showed me a few things and then he says
and you see the color of his eyes the same and it's this tiny
little dot of paint. He said I had to redo that several times
because Rex Harrison told me that his eyes were not that
color
as well as the physical impossible to please taste of network
executives every year I had to come up with a new concept for Mickey and
Minnie punch boxes and so I had making many in
Paris making many in the US the algae
soda
fountain making in many caveman. And pirate making in
many
I mean it was a long process stealing one the oldest ration because
there's approval from Disney every stage she would say
in concept after concept and they would you know.
Now let's see some more think on one in about thirty
different concepts till I got so frustrated
that I did make a hole in the leash looking down at Pluto squashed on
the road with tire tracks down his
back you
killed a random over the
little crosses on
is
an ascended to Disney and our director at the time she called me
she said you know we're not going to approve. But the
artist year passed it around the net a good laugh.
There
was ever present risk of producing a
flop as a way far south
California boy. David a
show and then all of a sudden it became one of our top
sellers or passing on a hit that would then go to a competing
studio rival lunchbox
manufacturer thermos when Star Wars came
out for marketing. So we got to go with our
faces never done well. Star Trek didn't do that well Lost in Space didn't do that
well black hole black hole was a bomb and we kept it all but this is different it's different.
We ended up not taking it passed we passed on our garments
to and left one of the most
popular of
all.
And in
between there was lounging by hotel
pool
a few years ago that we also
visited the Smithsonian
cafeteria and I was looking at all the T.V. stuff you know straight out and then
I turned around and then here's just just this wall of lunch boxes. Now and there's
my Sesame Street up there is grandma. There's gaining.
My brother a listen Knoxville behave. He was a banker.
He always silent not an artist just a hobby. You know because my father.
Haywood said I We can't afford for both of you get a college you know your brother ago
because you know he would be
the breadwinner the family and he needs to go and see my brother he finally said to
me best you know let me just go and get you a a real
job and I said I have a real job. I got to illustrate
lunchboxes from a thirty five years. I got to do some now really love to doing and the
SAT them in the Smithsonian and you're not and he just kind of
stopped you like doing it I loved it. That's the
only job working for somebody else that I look forward to going to work every
day especially when I was working on an illustration.
It was merchandising and licensing and all that stuff but it same time it
was you know smiling faces on I have a
million
Elmer and I did the last four
together that last year
was when he seemed to really need a
friend he was kind of you
know been pushed in the past
year there was no work for him.
No you call me as if that was a new thing. It could do
your think it was two
weeks before he
died
it was in July of ninety eight and I had
gone
too far with black girls and.
By before last now in our caucus and you've always done a portrait of other
people when when I get back and I want you to do a portrait from
A and he goes OK The day before I came home he
thought he had been out. Moe and his lawn that
day and he came and sat down in the chair to
read up on the porch on the patio
and that that's where he
died he left me over four hundred of his books.
He said he wanted me to have them because he thought I would
and
Elmer was a private person when he died he was an enemy to a published at
his request.
When
you
go to high school. What decade the seventy's the seventies. I'm fifty two
now was jacket nodding a big prank in your day.
No doubt. Elmer painted the
Welcome Back Kotter lunch box then he really did that one too.
So I guess the neighbor kid wasn't going to help me solve my mystery.
Danna no memory of it either the Beverly she was working with Elmer the year he got the car account.
I was sure that if anyone would know why he chose to put the not a chirp. On the lunch box. It would be
her but when I asked her about it she said she'd have vague memory of him working on
it but couldn't recall any actual specific details beyond that there's an
image on it the lunch box that has one of the characters
holding up the denim jean jacket with knotted sleeves. I can't figure out
what the jean jacket
means it might be a joke but what's the joke. The joke is
if you try to put on your Jane jacket and the the not during the Flavin again get
are getting at the joke.
I think it's a joke but there were times when.
You didn't question Elmer.
I don't think I've got that cutter
lunchbox do you have a lot of lunch
boxes when I first went there I started saving one of each one that
I
illustrated of probably get.
Oh maybe fifty or sixty hanging from the rafters
in the kitchen hanging.
Yeah living in a log house it's one hundred fifty years
ago the restaurant across the room just
as nails with rows of lunch
boxes looking at I'm right here most of
them
do you see a bunch of Elmers right now.
Yes Several say there's
Mouseketeers though if you ever saw the by
cent annual lunch about the little cartoon characters of.
Signers of the Declaration of Independence those
characters he based himself and his wife.
Elmer painting himself into the bicentennial image was a first tangible piece of evidence
I had that he'd made something up on a lunch box. Unless he really. It was one of
the signers of the Declaration of Independence.
I'm rich and happy or I'm getting it right now. That's
film and that's his wife is Betsy Ross she says and
there's phone stars on the flag
and he's holding up a shirt with star shaped holes in
it with a gruff look on his face and that's his sense
of
humor with the cut stars. That's the kind of
humor that he put in its illustration
of cowboy now another Sure based gag just like Welcome Back
Kotter and thought about maybe that's his real house.
Elmer son is on the Dr Doolittle lunch box as an islander holding a rope attached to the
giant snail. By really poses the Beinecke woman standing in Elmer's
office pantomiming ripping a phonebook in half. It's her body in the final image
of Wendy Wagner's
face on the land of a giant lunchbox Almer apparently just went for
it the stars of the show are so tiny you can't even make out who the actors
are they've been captured by a giant and in his face the takes up most of the
image that's Elmer's face.
It's huge the only thing that take that more
space are all ten fingers of his giant
hand
and Aladdin toes traders were allowed to sign their
boxes everything you did Aladdin blong to Aladdin.
Perhaps the Cotter scene was another way for Elmer to insert himself into the
illustrations by creating an image that was both the original and left no
evidence but even if that were the case
already got the idea for the knives we prank in the first place to come from his own life.
He was one of the first T.V. wrestlers
really to go rest alone at night and then he would draw during the day. He had a big
nose from all the getting beat up all the top.
Starlee he used to bring fail me and. No mater fake you know. And
it's out weave he put it on up there against the wall you know in the back in this with him in
Chicago wrestling and Beck began. You know there was always the began the bad guy and he was the
back and hey was hell Arius because he would cast stand there
with this kind of shuffle you know like abandonware Easter get right to attack and that's
why you were the one who sneaked up behind the referee a page
don't get my faces and he goes well as well get by to go there early about the one who's out
both cause the trouble.
We grew really close. We had a lot of one time we went to North
Carolina
together. We had a printer over there and we went over there for a
proofing while we were there I wanted to go to the
museum and he didn't want to go to the museum he wanted to go to the mud wrestling.
He was not a big fan of modern art and that's to put it
mildly. He was he was a devoted craftsman when you lay
a law and illustration board with the number two
side will brush
with the consonants to be able to make it a good clean
sharp line that the ends where you want to think and where you want
it to takes a real masterful stroke to do
that and then you have
somebody kind of bucket on the strange and. Spoken a hole in the bottom
of it and swing it back and forth over Kansas.
It was all just garbage to you know it was a
scam that somebody had sold. You know to the public.
Unlike professional
wrestling actually And
so we decided to go to the museum
early and go to the mud wrestling afterwards.
You know what they say. One man's mud wrestling is another man's cafeteria
lunch vice a professional wrestler. Yeah.
Do you think of
Elmer when you say professional wrestler.
Yes I do not. Well that's what he was before he really. Yes
before your
painting lunchbox.
I
never knew that you are full of wonderful
information prank. It doesn't seem to that happen on the show
and it didn't seem to represent the
show it never happened on the show so it could have come completely out
of the creative imagination
of Linhardt Yes I mean now that I know he was a he
was one of these professional wrestlers he probably did that very
prank using as a wrestling move. I mean just the fact that he
went into
that world which is full of pranks. You got to come up with
creative ways of combatting your your opponent wrestling.
Yeah I like that. OK now look into
that
you did good neighbor kid you did good.
OK so I just need to find a wrestler who is equally conversant in
both pranks and
clothing
that wrestler was called
Cabana Oddly enough I make my own notes that's really the
great craft to have a wrestler like we deal with like Ryan materials and outfits a lot even though
I'm you know six foot one two hundred forty pounds. I still have my little sewing machine
and I and I So that's adorable. Thank you know that's adorable.
While the rest of us have been going on with our everyday lives buying clothing in
stores crack. In
cases restoring wonder to an otherwise drab universe.
There's been a whole world of competitive professional wrestling happening out
there perhaps a villa chasm left behind by the demise of competitive
lunchbox manufacturing.
Can
you have yours in a wrestling move that involves knotting a jacket.
I can't say that I have there's wrestling moves where you can actually
put a person in a physical
not with some when I
show
called What's happened is it's been tied in knots at the flea.
So you can't put your you can't put your hands into the
sleeves that part I didn't need a professional to tell me the whole thing's a
jean jacket that Epstein's holding actually blonde Sobrino a belief I find confusing
and wrong but I allowed to
proceed in this situation. Sure Volta was in class and
he was in a hurry and he had to leave and then he left his
sweet denim jacket behind right. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to
tie both of his sleeves in a knot because there's got to be consequences for him
leaving this
around wrestlers pull pranks on each other so often they had their own words for them Brits.
If I leave my phone in a wrestling locker room and I come back twenty minutes and
it hasn't been tampered or screw with. I am singing to the guys in the
resting well I like that
like putting anything. Qualifies as you asking for it.
Let us never forget the caution a tale of a prank that was pulled on a wrestler a friend of
Colts by Colt on the night the friend won a big championship.
So he just won the title and he was happy like it was a dream come
true and everything that he had ever wanted in his life. You know I would have thought he would have
been sleeping with his title belt and would have never let go of it but for some reason he he left
his his championship on the desk. In the
back and so of course I took the belt and
I. I snuck into the wrestling ring itself climbed up the scaffold and
I cascaded my way up way to the very top of the
building and looked at titled album and when you say you climbed up the scaffold
there was ladders and tables and chairs did you
just stacked twenty chairs and of each other and then climb up those to the top. You know
it's wrestling Donkey Kong for the greatest
and you know he was so upset he was genuinely upset
genuinely yelling like where's the Mars my title and you know as a room of so you
know fifty people just casually looking up to the sky.
We just always kind of look up and then look down and
eventually I think after threatening to punch somebody basically almost crying.
We let him have his belt back and those are the guys that get ripped because
why read somebody who's not going to care like there's no fun in that.
And they never learned today
that
I still hadn't been anyone who'd ever done the knot tying prank or
anyone could ever had done to them or anyone who's ever heard of it being
done but who better than a wrestler to find out for Jonathan whether or not it worked
as a prank.
You can borrow that.
Rip and you can use it if you when you're on it when you're on tour.
I mean I'll take requests. You know I'll take a
question I'm going to give this a chair. And I'll let you know
how my opponent enjoyed it. Or did not enjoy the rip you're really going to try.
I wrestle for ten minutes a night and I have so much time to
waste with my partner out in the streets. I shifted to desk work.
One of my investigators Eric had disappeared down or rabbit hole a pranking related library research.
I probably should've called someone. But instead it gave me an
idea.
Beverly had told me that Aladdin wasn't and. That's source material to work from the illustrators that
use outside material to fill in details of their
drawings one of Elmer hadn't gotten the not hankering from Welcome Back Kotter from
another show and then it just kind of planted the prank onto the cotton lunchbox.
I
found a ten minute clip of Family Feud with a cotter cast competed against a love boat cast that
was immediately apparent would be of no help boys I nonetheless watched from beginning to end and
then ten to Jonathan while so watched from the getting to end with oddly
hypnotic Orszag was the leaders who did
it and Richard Dawson at one point suck his own
tongue
and then finally I caught a break the a another half hour to come about for
the shit and just who's the adult and who's a kid here authority figure in their
lives Always Sunny In
Philadelphia
the show had him come close to existing when the lunchboxes made or for that matter.
Welcome Back Kotter was
on the side from that one technicality. Everything else tracked.
OK so the episode I want to talk to you about is in season five
and it's episode twelve the season
finale sure you know the first episode I ever
wrote the first anything I ever
wrote this is Dave and the episode he wrote the character played by Glenn
Howerton and Danny De Vito has a rivalry with a local bar. They break into the
bar owners house and start playing pranks. What were those pranks.
I remember they did his taxes and they they
they mailed his shoes on the ground of his squad let's move.
I believe they may cut his shower curtain out ways to
hide a good one
and they tie his shirt in action. I have
seriously now. Where did you get the idea for Frank to
tie the shirt sleeves in
knots how man.
Honestly I had no idea.
So you wrote a scene with a nod as we prank and you don't know where that came
from no now I am from my
mind to that makes sense to why that's a prank.
I'm not going to hear an amazing prank. Yeah I think I got it.
How do you know when your feelings about Welcome Back Kotter you now it's
a distant
memory as a lunch box the Welcome Back Kotter had an on
lunch box. Epstein is holding up
a jean jacket the sleeves of the jacket are tied in
knots does there's been a mystery about what that jean jacket
means and you're your episode one of the only pieces of evidence of every scene that it's
a prank. Ah. What does it
mean yeah well I cannot be there but I'd swear I'm going to
go back and watch your back.
I
would
love
nothing more than the key to your mystery side sounds like I've made your
life even harder than it was already started
and I'm beginning to suspect
conspiracy before starting this case I'd
never realized Cotter was so dangerous to the establishment of course the real
question was
why ask yourself why was it no one is allowed and remembered a single
detail about the lunchbox getting made Ask yourself why did Jonson
appear to be the only person who's ever wondered about the Nona
jacket. Ask yourself why didn't anyone seem to know there's a comma in
the title of the show to quote Donald Sutherland paraphrasing a
fictional Malcolm of real life people in the film J.F.K. There was an air of a light on
now make believe to the whole thing how else do you
explain what happened to one of my investigators
Alex in the midst of us working on the
case.
I was on the
show says that
this truck shop near my house was running
and I was meeting somebody talk about
something with a few details and that's the least suspicious thing he said.
Anyway I looked up
and I saw
this just above the espresso machine just sitting
there so we
are the
exact walking back out of lunch box where he's not objective. Just like randomly perched on top of an ice
machine in this was the shop that I built this
morning and you asked him about it yeah I did. Yeah that's what was it. They were
like oh is this show back in the seventies like I don't know I know I heard before about the lunch
bugs two days that are working there just been sitting there. They don't know where it came from and they're
like No
Idea or so they said. Who knows what they found out before their mind
or
raced it was really like you know the
legs up when I'm the president says I was like this big double album and it was like all the like really domestic scenes
like just like sort of like sort of Norman Rockwell it sort of seems like people and like eating breakfast and sort of like these
Defoe's And then there was this like weird
little black mandala that was just placed in different places all around
it and like that's what this felt like oh my god it's like
tracking
the weirdest thing.
Try to remember that it was just as I feared that actually true for us you
know they've got to Alex.
How else to explain the email I got shortly after from Alan Sachs that
read quote just received this from a fan of Missouri asking for my
autograph had never received a request via mail asking me to find
a picture. What kind of voodoo you were
seeing the picture he'd been sent to find was naturally of
the lunchbox.
But you already knew that it had been scanned on a piece of paper the lunch box
just floating without comment without explanation in the middle of the page.
How else do you explain the following exchange between me and the company that held the original merchandise life
into the lunchbox while for production all productions are no longer but I wrote to
the curator at archives asking for any information related to the
lunchbox she responded that she'd done a search of the quote
cutter
merchandising binder. But hadn't come across any mention of the lunchbox at all she'd be happy
to set up an appointment for me to come visit to archive in person though to look through larger set the
folders pertaining to publicity marketing and miscellaneous furcata
large traffic I
said and suggested a date at which point I received another email.
I actually had a chance to go through the other color files. Sadly I was not able to find
any documents that addressed a specific question you were seeking to have answered I will keep an
eye out for you however I'm really sorry for this
news. I will back again saying basically that my idea of
a
good time was coming through files that more than likely lead to nothing and could I please still fed up an appointment.
Sure Roback the curator except the reading room would be closing in a couple
weeks for some
months. Well then could I make an appointment before
it closed.
Unfortunately came the reply the reading room was all booked up for the remaining days it was open.
Maybe there'd be a cancellation I tried. Could you let me know
if that was the last I heard from her.
I doubt she was ever heard from by anyone ever again
actually I did get an email from a colleague though the
material that you
originally requested is not part of the collection. I'm not sure what you are
expecting us to produce for you to look at I had no
idea emails can make the sound of a slamming door.
I had arrived at the point that all investigators
do when confronted with a mass conspiracy the obsessive revisiting of
evidence while your family moves out. I found myself returning to the
Cotter episodes hunting for that one clue. I must have missed.
And that's when I saw them
lunchboxes you could just barely make them out. They were perched on a shelf in
the sweat house classroom back into the left of John Travolta's
hair Planet Of The Apes and the Disney bus. Both Elmer's.
And the next episode a third box appeared. And then a fourth. I watched more
episodes fast forwarding until I got to the classroom scene. Sometimes the boxes moved to the window.
Sometimes they went back down to two the Disney bus was a constant always
there always
watching Never learning still thing just nothing behind the grassy
knoll Mr
Cotter
Meanwhile
somewhere in a sea of spandex some of it hands
down.
This
is
called a ban I'm in a locker room right now Marty
score a lot you don't know what we're doing right. I have no idea really know if you agree to play on
the yes going to give me lots of trouble which you know happens call anyway.
So here's what we're going to do this is Doug Williams Doug Williams twenty two year veteran
a professional I used to watch him when I was maybe like twelve in the cups and we bring that over
to
us Rob is actually brought back his coach his new coach. It's well watch
that he just this life arrived this lovely great British You need Jacques
Rogge which is anyone twice.
So we're going to tie this in a knot. Yeah. And we're going to have to get his reaction.
Yeah I feel bad already. I know I'll take all the blame. OK You say that now I feel I'm going to
backfire on May. Oh God.
Hold on. So you have one and I have the other. Yeah. And
now we're going to pop all kind of tight.
This is hard but I'm kind of are we going to break it now it's not a break it's out of spandex.
OK the stitching I'm right
about now OK it's a pretty tight.
Maybe knees
Dimona you want to three knots Yeah.
There we go
yeah
right
she
talk about match afterwards he doesn't know yet he looks like he's really blowing up is always a. And so
a so he might
say
a little
more so in a
row
on breakfast.
I now knew the night his sleeves could be done as a
prank but the mystery was where the print could come from and I still
didn't have proof that anyone besides Cole Cabana had ever done it before and
Colt couldn't have been the inspiration for the lunchbox because that's not how time
works and then there came a
day that my investigator Eric
resurfaced pale in unshaven clutching a page from a
book called The modern cowboy. I have a question for you about
a prank that is done that involved tying shirt sleeves and not.
On the planet many times.
Uncountable isn't John the
cowboy comma modern So what is what
is the
print they struggle to get their arms to
end up
back and is a satisfying payoff. When one
can't get the shirt
on all of it think in the causal factor.
It's leave our arm or go through the sleeve.
So to disruption to the normal the normal flow of events and then that is
enough to produce laughter by discovering that there are
minutes
when Cowboys go out on the ground that you know started they lied
and has a
warm falsely sure that
like
the. He just lied in the late. I'm a patient
man for the first person I've ever spoken to who's not only her is the knot
tying prank but has done it as far as I know you invented this
prank asked.
Well I think that probably learned from an old
rancher most of them were drunk or add impish sense
of humor and were all very capable of pulling pranks.
So like if you see an article of clothing that just laying there. It's hard for you to not think be to
tie the knots.
Yeah. You must seize the opportunity you
can
see in the church choir pretty easily the ladies in
our soprano sax and they're never just
acting a prank kind of they react. Well they
always know that
it is it easier to tie
acquire ladies' robes knots or a Cowboys like
shirt shirt sleeves the choir.
And more nothing but the ladies in the choir. They're not
vengeful No although one of them stay for
my my music folder to gather not
in your sheet music together. Yeah that's a good
prank at the good prank. Do you think this is a distinct cowboy prank
the not a
sleeve they're the only only people I ever knew who did
it now it could be considered a church choir prank.
Yeah I guess in like a pretty good there isn't to my
repertory
So you're satisfied that said Frank. We've proven time out of five that
that this not it we've prank has a history in this country this is
the oldest the cowboys who killed toiled with.
Makes sense a cowboy would think to do that because they're always thinking
about those and they would be the ones to really see a rope in
a sleeve or other
people so tight
two guys play tug of war with that sleeve as tight as they possibly could just
never get it out again because then maybe would be not such an innocent prank because then
you both sleeves and in the person's freezes to death because they can't get there like if
you're stranded on a
mountain climbing Mount Everest and
then chose to do it
then why would you do that
and then they would have to cut it off and
then
that's a terrible break.
No
it's very sad very
satisfying lunch pails are filled
with sandwiches a thrown garbage because your mother makes bad sandwiches or tell you
a generic mother here. My mother my mother was a saint.
I get that. Thank you.
Wow
do
I get to keep on I was. Are you
kidding i would have wrapped up it's kind of like Artie. In a box. This is fantastic.
It's going to be on my home into the Smithsonian.
Robert
Horowitz
is
contributing
editor
at
this
episode.
Thanks also to Matt
Lieber by the
band who are so talented they need all of you to make them
famous immediately. I mean the great tremendous closing song which is available
on Spotify opening song by sparks.
In our logo on a T. shirt. You can get the
mystery
membership of the T. shirt has the
back way to
measure
him sleeves of the T. shirts are probably too short for NOT purposes
but if you're feeling confident and if you haven't listen to the game.
This is the hard part.
This is the last episode of season one a mystery show. Did you think I was going to last
episode period.
No way I'll be back soon. As quickly as
I can some of those mysteries might be yours to keep sending them to me at
mysteries a gimlet Media dot com I know you all waited a while for this one and that I threw out
some dates that turned out to be red
herrings. And I want you to know what that meant to me
I read every tweet every email every message and I'll miss you guys one guy.
There isn't a new clue this time
but I do want to give you an explanation for the old one the opening credits to Welcome Back
Kotter featured a sign. Welcome to Brooklyn fourth largest city in
America honorable Sebastian Leon borough president. None of you guys
got it but he's OK your guesses were even better.
Did
you
know
I
have
a
Welcome
Back
Kotter puzzle lifesize puzzle lifesize the finite
size like six feet tall it's not what is a dubbed good card
or no it isn't. Yes it is I don't believe you. Yeah it's like ten big pieces but you lay on the
ground and then you can lie beside Gabe Carter when do you get
it as a child. No as an adult you got it.
Listen I was sharing something that I thought might be pertinent to our
case.